README.md, before:

# PEGGY INPUT

An HTML input element that provides syntax directed editing and completion based on a [Peggy](https://peggyjs.org/) PEG grammar.

![PeggyInput](docs/peggy-input.gif)

## Usage

Call `PeggyInput` with the jQuery input element and a javascript object with:

- grammar: A Peggy grammar with completion blocks for some of the rules.
- completers: A javascript object to use for matching completions.

The `completers` object contains subobjects that specified "completion rules".
A completion rule is a special rule with a Peggy `rule`, plus the completion `candidates`.
The Peggy grammar is expanded using the completers object.

Example:

```javascript
let users = ['Mariano Montone', 'Asgeir Bjørlykke', 'Martin Montone'];
let groups = ['Management', 'Administration', 'Human Resources'];

({
    'completers': {
       'username' : {
           'rule' : 'name',
           'candidates' : users
       },
       'group' : {
          'rule' : 'name',
          'candidates' : groups
       }
    }
})
```

That means two Peggy rules are added to the original grammar.
A `username` rule, that is parsed using the `name` rule.
And a `group` rule, that is also parsed using `name`.

The `candidates` contain an array of completion candidates.
When one of those rules match, they are completed using the specified candidates.

### Options

- `grammar`: String. Required. The Peggy grammar.
- `completers`: Object. Required. Object with keys being the completer name, and value an object with `rule` and `candidates`. `rule` is the name of the Peggy rule to create. `candidates` is an array of strings with the completion candidates.
- `showSyntaxErrorMsg`: Boolean. Optional. Default is `true`. When enabled show the syntax errors below the HTML input.
- `onChange`: Function. Optional. A function handler that is invoked with the PeggyInput instance as argument when there's a change.
- `errorMsgFormatter`. Function. Optional. A function that takes a PeggyInput instance and a Peggy SyntaxError and should return a string used a error message.
- `validateWhenBlank`: Boolean. Optional. Default is true iff the input is required. Whether to validate the input and show an error when the input is blank.

### API

- `isValid`: Returns `true` iff the current input value is a valid expression according to the provided grammar.
- `getValue`: Returns the parsed value of the input, unless it is in an error state.
- `getError`: Returns the current syntax error.
- `getInput`: Access the HTML input element.

## Examples

### Assignments language

Edit a mini-language for assignments. There are users and groups of users.
The language has expressions like:
- everyone but @Peter
- members of Management but @John
- ...

Specify the Peggy grammar:

```javascript
start = assignment
assignmentgroup = "everyone" / groupmembers
assignment = g:assignmentgroup " " "but " as:assignees { return [g, {'not': as}] } / assignees
assignee = "everyone" / user / groupmembers
assignees = a:assignee WS "," WS as:assignees { return [a].concat(as) } / a:assignee { return [a] }
groupmembers = "members of " groups:groups { return {'membersOf':groups} }
groups = g:group WS "," WS gs:groups { return [g].concat(gs) } / g:group { return [g] }
user = "@" username:username { return {'user':username} }
WS = [ \t]*
word = !"but" cs:(![ ,@] .)+ { return cs.map(c => c[1]).join('') }
name = word:word " " name:name { return word + " " + name } / word
```

Create an HTML input element:

```html
<input id="input" type="text" style="width: 400px;"></input>
```

Instantiate a PeggyInput passing the grammar and completers as options:

```javascript
var users = ['Mariano Montone', 'Asgeir Bjorlykke', 'Martin Montone', 'Fernando Berretti'];
var groups = ['Management', 'Administration', 'Human Resources'];
PeggyInput('#input',
          {
              'grammar': grammar,
              'completers': {
                  'username' : {
                      'rule' : 'name',
                      'candidates' : users
                  },
                  'group' : {
                      'rule' : 'name',
                      'candidates' : groups
                  }
              }
          }
      );
```

## How it works

The algorithm is based on the following: try to parse the input using the given PEG grammar. When an error ocurrs, that error contains the expected input at point. The expected input is used to provide the completions.

## Development

`npm install`

Run `make`, `make clean`, `make rebuild`.

### Debug logs

`peggyInputInstance.logger.setLevel('debug');`

## Demo

`npm install`

Run `make start-demo`.

Commit message:

completion-sources: Documentation of possible options.

README.md, after:

# PEGGY INPUT

An HTML input element that provides syntax directed editing and completion based on a [Peggy](https://peggyjs.org/) PEG grammar.

![PeggyInput](docs/peggy-input.gif)

## Usage

Call `PeggyInput` with the jQuery input element and a javascript object with:

- grammar: A Peggy grammar with completion blocks for some of the rules.
- completers: A javascript object to use for matching completions.

The `completers` object contains subobjects that specified "completion rules".
A completion rule is a special rule with a Peggy `rule`, plus the completion `candidates`.
The Peggy grammar is expanded using the completers object.

Example:

```javascript
let users = ['Mariano Montone', 'Asgeir Bjørlykke', 'Martin Montone'];
let groups = ['Management', 'Administration', 'Human Resources'];

({
    'completers': {
       'username' : {
           'rule' : 'name',
           'candidates' : users
       },
       'group' : {
          'rule' : 'name',
          'candidates' : groups
       }
    }
})
```

That means two Peggy rules are added to the original grammar.
A `username` rule, that is parsed using the `name` rule.
And a `group` rule, that is also parsed using `name`.

The `candidates` contain an array of completion candidates.
When one of those rules match, they are completed using the specified candidates.

### Options

- `grammar`: String. Required. The Peggy grammar.
- `completers`: Object. Required. Object with keys being the completer name, and value an object with `rule` and `candidates`. `rule` is the name of the Peggy rule to create. `candidates` is an array of strings with the completion candidates.
- `showSyntaxErrorMsg`: Boolean. Optional. Default is `true`. When enabled show the syntax errors below the HTML input.
- `onChange`: Function. Optional. A function handler that is invoked with the PeggyInput instance as argument when there's a change.
- `errorMsgFormatter`. Function. Optional. A function that takes a PeggyInput instance and a Peggy SyntaxError and should return a string used a error message.
- `validateWhenBlank`: Boolean. Optional. Default is true iff the input is required. Whether to validate the input and show an error when the input is blank.

### Completion candidates sources

- An array of strings.
- A string with an url from where to `fetch` the candidates. This behaviour is also controlled by other options:
    * `preload`: Boolean. Default is false. If true, then candidates are fetched immediatly after the PeggyInput instance is initialized.
    * `filter` : Boolean. Default is true. If false, then the filtering of candidates is assumed to be done server side.
    * `cache`: Boolean. Default is false. If true, then fetch requests are cached.
- A function. Takes current entered prefix string and a PeggyInstance, and should return a Promise with a list of strings filtered by the prefix.

### API

- `isValid`: Returns `true` iff the current input value is a valid expression according to the provided grammar.
- `getValue`: Returns the parsed value of the input, unless it is in an error state.
- `getError`: Returns the current syntax error.
- `getInput`: Access the HTML input element.

## Examples

### Assignments language

Edit a mini-language for assignments. There are users and groups of users.
The language has expressions like:
- everyone but @Peter
- members of Management but @John
- ...

Specify the Peggy grammar:

```javascript
start = assignment
assignmentgroup = "everyone" / groupmembers
assignment = g:assignmentgroup " " "but " as:assignees { return [g, {'not': as}] } / assignees
assignee = "everyone" / user / groupmembers
assignees = a:assignee WS "," WS as:assignees { return [a].concat(as) } / a:assignee { return [a] }
groupmembers = "members of " groups:groups { return {'membersOf':groups} }
groups = g:group WS "," WS gs:groups { return [g].concat(gs) } / g:group { return [g] }
user = "@" username:username { return {'user':username} }
WS = [ \t]*
word = !"but" cs:(![ ,@] .)+ { return cs.map(c => c[1]).join('') }
name = word:word " " name:name { return word + " " + name } / word
```

Create an HTML input element:

```html
<input id="input" type="text" style="width: 400px;"></input>
```

Instantiate a PeggyInput passing the grammar and completers as options:

```javascript
var users = ['Mariano Montone', 'Asgeir Bjorlykke', 'Martin Montone', 'Fernando Berretti'];
var groups = ['Management', 'Administration', 'Human Resources'];
PeggyInput('#input',
          {
              'grammar': grammar,
              'completers': {
                  'username' : {
                      'rule' : 'name',
                      'candidates' : users
                  },
                  'group' : {
                      'rule' : 'name',
                      'candidates' : groups
                  }
              }
          }
      );
```

## How it works

The algorithm is based on the following: try to parse the input using the given PEG grammar. When an error ocurrs, that error contains the expected input at point. The expected input is used to provide the completions.

## Development

`npm install`

Run `make`, `make clean`, `make rebuild`.

### Debug logs

`peggyInputInstance.logger.setLevel('debug');`

## Demo

`npm install`

Run `make start-demo`.
